When you show the AI that you know about
some of the caveats to what you first
asked about, it will then give you a
more specific answer. So, careful when
you use AI to come up with a definitive
answer because you need to know enough
to ask a comprehensive question that
includes context.
And a lot of people, hmm, they're
probably not going to do that right
their first attempt. You may have to do
it a bunch of times. You may have to
read a couple books on the subject
before you can even really ask that
complete question that includes the
context.
>> [music]
>> Hi, my name is John Jaquish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering, which
gives me a unique perspective on all
sorts of things. Today, I want to talk
about
using artificial intelligence, using AI,
to answer your fitness, health, or
medical questions, and what the
limitations of AI are. Broad view here,
what AI is trying to do is get you the
information you're looking for.
Seems pretty straightforward. But,
the way it does so is most frequently
looking at how many data points support
one position or the other. Sometimes, if
an answer,
well, if a question should have context
to go along with it, but the individual
asking the question does not understand
that context is required in order to ask
this question, it can give you a very
wrong answer. So, for example, and I'll
I'll put this up on the screen. Here is
a is a great a great screenshot where
I'm asking
SHBG goes up with testosterone use. It's
basically a statement, but here the AI
says, "Yes, this is correct." And
then the regular web search says, "Yes."
And then it says, "It's not correct."
So, two opposing answers on the same
page.
Why? Well, it's because I left context
out of the question. And also, this
example I'm taking from an earlier video
I did where people were criticizing me
saying,
"Like you say SHBG
goes up when people start taking
testosterone, but that's not true, it
goes down."
Well, here's the real answer.
Initially, it goes down, and then after
60 days, it goes up. Which I also said
in the video, which I guess people
weren't
didn't connect those
those things. So, context is super
important, but let me give you an
example that's probably even more stark.
Because it's looking at the number of
data points without specificity,
you can really get a bad answer. So, if
I ask ChatGPT, "I have high cholesterol.
I have high LDL cholesterol.
What should I do?" It will give you the
standard medical answer
that physicians give today, the the same
answer that you'll find on the AMA
website, and the same answer that
thousands upon thousands of studies
came to. It'll say, "You need to lower
your LDL cholesterol
and potentially talk to your doctor
about getting on a statin drug."
Now,
this is terrible advice. And there is 10
years of research disproving the entire
lipid model of looking at LDL
cholesterol as the villain that causes
heart disease. It is not the villain, it
does not cause cause heart disease. Uh
Uh inflammation is what does that. So,
LDL cholesterol is really just a
transport mechanism for fatty acids.
Completely inappropriate read done a
long time ago. But, because there were
so many studies that came out,
thousands, stating that LDL is
bad.
By the way, 80% of the LDL cholesterol
you have in your body is made by your
body. So, if it was bad, why would your
body
try and kill you? It's not. You actually
need LDL. In the last 10 years of
research, we've seen that the higher
your LDL cholesterol is, the longer you
live, not shorter. So, the premise
of the statin drugs was that LDL is bad,
you need to cut LDL down.
But, turns out that's not true.
If you ask your Chat GPT a follow-up
question and say,
"It looks like in the last 10 years of
research
that there are an overwhelming majority
of of published peer-reviewed papers
that now say the higher your LDL
cholesterol is, the longer you live."
Chat GPT will come back with, "Oh, when
considering the newer literature,
this is correct, and you may not want to
lower your LDL cholesterol, but you
should consult a physician." I mean, it
says that for liability reasons, and you
know, we don't want to be getting our
advice from AI for exactly the reason
I'm talking about, because you could ask
it a bad question or an incomplete
question and get a lousy answer
and not know it. When you show the AI
that you know about some of the caveats
to what you first asked about, it will
then give you a more specific answer.
So, careful when you use AI to come up
with a definitive answer, because you
need to know enough to ask a
comprehensive question that includes
context.
And a lot of people, hm, they're
probably not going to do that right
their first attempt. You may have to do
it a bunch of times. You may have to
read a couple books on the subject
before you can even really ask that
complete question that includes the
context. I hope this helped. I'm very
much looking forward to the comments on
this one. It's going to be very
interesting. This is a very new area of
medicine and health that we're into and
I think it's going to help us all as
long as we use it correctly. [music]
Look forward to hearing from you.
Thanks. See you on the next one. If this
video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights.
We've got the answer for you.
>> [music]